Dear all, for the sake of
our practice at the temple, we often
receive the daily Zen chanting book of Ba
Vang Temple to chant and practice
daily. Before entering the scripture recitation, I take off my
glasses to see the great obstruction. Last night, when I
went to sleep, my right eye was
normal, but when I woke up this morning, it was swollen
like this. That is, my right
eye was normal,
but when I woke up this morning, it was swollen like this. That is, my right eye was normal, but when I woke up, it was swollen like
this. I will
read this chapter on Impermanence to
show you that
if we know how to contemplate impermanence,
we can always contemplate
this chapter on Impermanence. This chapter speaks about the impermanence of
our own physical form. We are
subject to impermanence, the five-part impermanence of the mind
of the lotus flower. In ancient times, the
Buddha chanted on Mount Ky Xa, in the city of La
Duyet Ky. At that time, in the city, there was a
courtesan named Lien Hoa. This courtesan was so
beautiful that no one in the country could compare to her. Young
men and sons of wealthy families all
admired her and vied to be with her. One day, the
young woman suddenly...  Thiện Tâm wanted to
abandon worldly affairs and become a nun. She
renounced everything and went to Mount Kỳ Xát, where
the Buddha was residing. Along the way, she encountered a
cool, clear spring. She stopped to
drink and wash her hands. The cool, clear water
reflected
her beautiful figure, her smooth, glossy hair, and
perfectly proportioned body.
Seeing her own beauty,
she regretted it, thinking, "I was
born with such captivating beauty,
why did I abandon it to become a monk? I should enjoy myself
while I'm still young and satisfy my
desires." With that thought, she
went back. The Buddha, knowing she
could save her, transformed her into a
young woman of even more exquisite beauty than Liên
Hoa, coming from the opposite direction. Liên
Hoa, seeing her, was filled with affection and
asked her where she came from. She had no husband, children,
parents, or siblings, and why she was traveling alone. The
young woman replied, "I came from the city on
business and am now returning home. We've only just met, let's
go together. There
's a cool, clear spring nearby;
let's rest and chat for
a while."  Lotus Flower happily replied, "That's wonderful!"
The two went to the water's edge and chatted for
a while. Afterward, the young woman, tired, leaned against
Lotus Flower's lap and fell asleep. Unexpectedly, the
young woman died shortly after. Her body swelled up, maggots crawled all over her, her
hair fell out, her limbs disintegrated, and a foul
stench emanated from her. Lotus
Flower was terrified,
thinking, "That young woman was more beautiful than me! She
left this world so quickly,
how can I guarantee a long life?"
Thinking this, she resolved to diligently seek the path to
enlightenment, returning to the Buddha's place. Upon arriving, she bowed to the Buddha
and recounted everything she had
seen. The Buddha told Lotus Flower, "There
are four things one cannot rely on:
First, youth will inevitably grow old and weak;
second, health will inevitably perish; third, loved ones and
happiness will inevitably be separated; and fourth,
accumulated wealth will inevitably be scattered." Then the Buddha
said, "The old woman's form will decline and illness will
cause her body to decay when her life is over. The body will decay and disintegrate;
what is precious in this body? Filth will flow
endlessly; she will be surrounded by illness and
suffer the misfortune of death."  Driven by
worldly desires, they increase their unlawful actions, unaware of the fleeting nature of
human life, even if it
's an only child or a parent, a sibling. When
death approaches, who can they rely on in their
youth? After hearing the Dharma, they joyfully attained enlightenment,
contemplating the illusory nature of the body and the
ephemeral nature of life. Only Nirvana offers eternal peace and
security. Therefore, they went to the Buddha to request ordination as a nun. The
Buddha said, "Well done!" and the nun,
Lotus Hair, immediately became a nun.
Later, through meditation, the Lotus Hair nun
attained Arhatship.
Those who heard the
Dharma in the assembly were all joyful.
Respectfully, to the entire assembly, when
we listen to or read a Dharma discourse,
we may
contemplate, but enlightenment is difficult, is
n't it? Yesterday, I met a
practitioner, and this practitioner told
me that they suddenly felt they didn't
want to practice
anymore. When I asked them, they shared all the
knowledge needed for a person to practice, for
example, knowing that life
is suffering, knowing that
everything is subject to impermanence,
knowing that one cannot live forever, knowing that
this life...  Nothing goes according to
our wishes, so we all suffer, yet it's still
difficult to continue practicing. The mind
still urges us to not want to practice anymore,
wanting to enjoy worldly pleasures.
Knowing this, we still want to enjoy
worldly pleasures. Here, after
careful consideration, how can we
resolve to practice? It's like this: "
This flower's beauty settles, a
good heart settles, and we go to practice, right?" But just
because we look down at a
river and see our own beauty, we don't
want to practice anymore, and then we regret
this body. So, to prevent
us from regretting this body, what should we do? If we regret this body,
how will we suffer? Now, I, Yen Trach, will explain
to the audience
why we don't care about our physical bodies.
We all want to be beautiful, right?
Who wants to be ugly? Raise your hand, you wo
n't have a single hand!
Therefore, everyone wants to be beautiful. In the
outside world, we call it "of course," but
in Buddhism, it's called "being born as a
human being" because of the
karma of desire.  If we were born
without desire, we wouldn't have been
born as humans;
we would have attained Nirvana, become saints. But since we are
born as humans, the first thing
we desire is lust, and this lust is what
we crave
most. We are very eager for this.
When a child is born, and it's beautiful,
don't we like it? That's the desire for the beauty of
others. What makes us
desire the beauty of others is, first, our
own beauty, and then the beauty of others. We
always like to be beautiful ourselves.
Everyone is like
that. As sentient beings who haven't yet cultivated
the path of desire, we all like
our own beauty. Therefore, the river has
become a ready-made mirror of
karmic force that gives rise to human beings. In the time when there were
no mirrors, where did people usually look in the
mirror? In the river, so
our karmic force has
manifested around us, giving us things to
desire. From the moment we
awaken, whether we look at the beauty of
others or our own beauty, we always
look at our own beauty first.  We gaze,
day and night, right? We
gaze a lot, especially when we start to
grow up a little. For example,
children in kindergarten,
because adults like the beauty of adults, they
pass that on to children, giving them the
charm to like their own beauty. "Mom ties my hair,
Mom combs my hair, I want to
make you beautiful," they say. That means our karmic force
manifests in
external interactions, increasing our
desire. So, mothers, grandparents, fathers, and
even outsiders tell the children, "You
look ugly today, I don't love you." And then,
naturally, it becomes a conscious thought in
the child: they want to be beautiful so that
people will love them. We have to see how powerful the
karma of attachment to the physical body is;
it manifests in all the
causes and conditions, making people
increasingly infatuated with their own beauty. Then,
when they begin to distinguish, they
see that they are beautiful, and they start to
criticize others for being ugly. That's the
cause of suffering. I will
analyze the suffering in this life.  Why did it
turn out like this? I like
my own beauty, I admire it every day,
so I desire beauty, and then
I want the person opposite me to be
beautiful too. So,
growing up,
girls, from 16 to 20, are at their most beautiful age.
At that time, girls
like to admire other girls, and
boys like to admire other girls.
Boys continue to
like to admire girls, but
how can a girl who is my wife
age like this? Like Yen's eyes are getting
hot like this,
girls are affected by the law of impermanence,
leading to decline and
illness. But the desire for beauty from the
boy's side doesn't diminish; the desire for
beauty remains.
Naturally, other flowers appear, and he will be
attracted to them. This is the cause of
broken families, moral decay, and it's all
because of the love of beauty. So if you still
love beauty, don't blame others.
This is to give you wisdom so
you understand, everyone. My husband is in love with another
girl.  The difference is that it's a natural
law that every living being, in
human form, desires beauty. I'm the same,
I don't blame you, that's
easier, right? It's better than us
going back to cursing, saying, "Back then,
I was so beautiful, you chased after me for so long, and
now that I'm old, you throw me out and
curse me like that." It's sad and frustrating,
but now, let's look in the mirror and
see if we still love ourselves as much as we did back then.
If this face of
Yen's from when she was 16 years old still
remained, Yen wouldn't
like this picture, she'd prefer the other one.
So,
when her husband got to know her, he
could
say, "I love you, I love you very much because back then
I thought you were beautiful." But look
at yourself, are you still as beautiful as you were then?
So
why is Yen saying this? To let us
know that we all, and everyone else,
appreciate beauty, so now that
beauty has faded and people don't like it
anymore, that's the point.  It's normal, and I'm
already declining. What does this sutra say? It
says that humans decline,
so beauty can't last forever. So
don't be sad or distressed about your appearance
when it deteriorates, with wrinkles, age spots, and sagging skin on your hands and
feet. Your eyes should be
a little deeper, reflecting the
experience of someone who's been through a
lot. Your lips should also wrinkle and
age, giving you an overall
aged look that makes others
trust you. But your eyes are still
bright, your lips are still red, and your skin is wrinkled.
Those of you who strive for youthful beauty
should remember that old age is quite frightening.
So, let's return to this topic:
what should we Buddhists contemplate to
alleviate our suffering? Combining this with the
above, why did that person have
such complete understanding but
still couldn't cultivate diligence in practice and
remained bored? In
Buddhist practice, thinking is the first step. If we
can't think, we can't let go.
But if we think and
don't practice,
we also can't...  There are results in thinking without
practice. In
this lesson, Yen is showing everyone how to
practice: "My body today is like this, but tomorrow it will
get sick and bad. Look
at your face, this bad illness, and
you'll know that you're going to
ruin. If you don't
monitor yourself daily, you won't accept
that you'll ruin. Others might
ruin, but you won't. That
only applies to others, not
to you. It's okay for someone else to die, but it's
unacceptable for your family to die,
right? We can go to 100
funerals, but we don't feel any sorrow, we do
n't feel emptiness, right? But when
your own family dies, do you feel
emptiness? You do. So, if
someone else's body is bad, we see it as
normal, but if our own body is bad,
don't we suffer? We suffer greatly. So now, if
we want to escape suffering, we must truly think about it
every day, and we
must see it as not suffering, day by day. Only then can
we solve it.
Buddhism isn't just about
empty talk, you know."  We
say, "This eye, we're ruined.
This lip, we're ruined." The first reaction that
comes to us is not wanting to
interact with anyone, right? Not
wanting anyone to see our flaws,
that is, not wanting to interact with anyone.
We don't want anyone to
see our flaws because we love our beauty.
If we don't want to
cling to our bodies like this anymore
to avoid suffering, wouldn't it be easier when we're at our ugliest,
when we're
showing ourselves the most?
People say we're ugly, but
then we should reflect on how this body
is decaying, becoming even uglier.
Whether beautiful or ugly is
n't the important issue for us; it's not about
leading us to liberation or
happiness. We must become bored with
this body so that we can diligently practice.
If we still cling to
this body, then studying the Dharma is
just listening;
we can't possibly achieve
liberation. The assembly unanimously agrees
that next time, whatever is ugly will be shown to
everyone.  The public doesn't see
it, and the second way is like
this: When we go out with friends or anywhere else, we
initially wear makeup, but then
we should stop wearing makeup so that
we can accept the
true voice from the outside world and get used to it.
That's what it means to not be obsessed with it.
If we always think that
we have to be beautiful in this public world, that we have to wear makeup
so that people see us as beautiful, then we
will suffer even more when we are
ugly like this. Then
we let our true faces
go out without confidence; isn't that
suffering? If today we go to a
wedding and can't find our lipstick,
we go
there feeling annoyed and insecure, thinking we're too ugly to go to the wedding.
So we're just
borrowing beauty from the
outside, and we're making ourselves
suffer. Who hasn't felt insecure going
out without makeup? Raise your hand
if you're not wearing makeup. There are so many people who don't dare raise their hand. What's the big deal?
Before, if Yen didn't wear makeup, she would
n't...  Where do you go to work? Going to work means you have to
wear
makeup. It's a real
struggle when you apply makeup, and after eating, your lipstick fades. You
have to reapply makeup three
or four times a day because sweat comes out and
soaks your face. Then you open your
makeup box and start wiping it off again and again. It's
so frustrating! And when
a pimple appears on your face, that's
your main concern for the day or
the month. You only stop when the pimple disappears. Is
n't that suffering? It's so painful to be obsessed with
your beauty. It's
very painful, you lose confidence. Not to mention,
if someone criticizes you, or if you happen to criticize
you, what do you do? You get angry at them!
Now, let's be at peace with
this beauty because it never lasts
forever.
It's subject to
karma: birth, sickness, and death. So, if
we want to be at peace,
we must see that our bodies are
impermanent, constantly changing. Everything in this world
is impermanent and changing. What
is permanent? What remains?  Staying in one place will
never change this flower; it will remain
like this forever, even if it's a dried flower, even if it's a
wildflower. Wildflowers are subject to oxidation;
everything will decay. What is not subject
to decay? If we don't constantly contemplate decay, we won't be
happy. This sutra is about
motivating us to diligently practice. If
we are reborn in the next life,
if we are reborn as humans, we will still
suffer because of our own beauty.
Even after a thousand or ten thousand lifetimes, not to
mention falling into the three evil paths of
hell, hungry ghosts, and animals, if we are still
reborn as humans, we will still
suffer because of our attachment to beauty.
So, if we want to lessen our suffering, from
this moment on, let's contemplate
our beauty and not be attached to it
anymore. Let it decay. For example, if we have a
pimple, we know it's painful,
so we treat the pimple. If our mind
arises with "Oh, it's so ugly," then we
turn back to contemplating, "Oh, this body is
impermanent. It
has its own laws in karma." Just contemplate it
more.  That way, we will be at peace with
our own beauty, not until
we leave this body that we become at peace.
This also gives rise to the
attachment to beauty in people. Through the practice of contemplating one
's own beauty, we will develop
the ability to avoid being attached to the beauty of
others. When we see someone,
we should contemplate them. For
example, if we see a very
beautiful girl, who has enough time to contemplate? We'll just frown and
wrinkle. We can't contemplate
because we're infatuated, we're
too infatuated, and at that moment,
the second thought in our minds is:
how can I get closer to this girl? The third thought is:
how can I win her over? The fourth
thought is: how can I
bring this girl home to live with me? There's no way to contemplate
her body; it will age,
wrinkle, and get sick. So, I advise
everyone in this club, if you're
young and you're trying to woo a girl, just
look at her mother. Later, she'll look just
like that. Look at her grandmother; she'll look exactly like that. Okay?
Not like that.  It won't always be like that. If you fall in love with
someone's son, look at the father; he'll be the same
later on, he ca
n't stay handsome forever.
Now, Mr. in the white coat, please stand up for
a moment. Mr. and Mr. Duc, stand
up here. Two, two, two, you two
stand up here
for everyone to see. Stand facing
downwards.
If a girl looks at
Mr. Duc and likes him, will he still have the mind
to look at her? Mr. in the white coat, you'll
have no mind to think about that.
But as Buddhists, we are
learning this lesson today, so that
we do
n't suffer when our bodies decay, and we won't become
attached to other people's bodies. If we have a husband and wife,
we won't be
unfaithful. Agreed? Thank you very much, Mr. and Mrs. Thy.
Yes, we must know that
our bodies follow the law of
impermanence; they get old, they get ugly, and then we die. If we die here,
who will be the parents? So, if
someone comes to get to know your daughter, look at my
face, and give me your opinion.  It's the same as with
you, Uncle. It's always like that. Do
you still love?
If your daughter-in-law comes to your son's house,
and he says, "Look at my face, soon your
son will look like that. Do you still
love him?" Say it beforehand, otherwise later you'll be surprised and say, "He's so ugly! Can
you still love him?" Well,
if we truly contemplate impermanence,
we are very free. If someone contemplates
impermanence well, they
will attain enlightenment. We know this, but what if we don't contemplate it? What does the word "contemplation" mean? Everyone, let's see what "contemplation" means. It means that in a Kṣaṇa (above the world), they contemplate everything. Only such a person can attain enlightenment. That is,
whatever comes to them, they
contemplate the Dharma. For example, if someone is
praising a flower, "How
beautiful it is!", when they praise it,
they discover that their mind is filled with attachment,
and they contemplate that it will wither, fade,
dry up, and rot. At that very moment,
they purify and extinguish their attachment. In this way,
in each Kṣaṇa thought,
they will be liberated. A
person who practices is like that.  That's it, it's very simple,
but it's not simple because the intensity of the
contemplation is too great, all day long from morning to
night, people don't get tainted by anything.
So when Lady Lotus was here, when she
heard the Buddha preaching about
this body, she contemplated her own body every day
and attained Arhatship. Why? Because when
someone sees themselves as too beautiful, the
thought of their own beauty is constantly
present. I mean, because they
like their own beauty so much, so the thought
of their beauty will constantly arise at
any time. So wherever
their beauty is, they become engrossed in it,
they will sever
the attachment and attain enlightenment.
As for those who are too attached to other people's beauty, what
should we contemplate? Contemplating other people's beauty means that
wherever we are engrossed, we
contemplate there. From tomorrow,
each of you should look in the mirror three times at home.
Look in the mirror in the morning after waking up,
but don't brush your teeth or wash your face yet, look in the
mirror right away. See what your face looks like in the morning. And
when we wash our faces...  After brushing my teeth and everything, I look in the
mirror again. From tomorrow, when my husband
and I come home from the temple, we'll see how much we look in the
mirror. We'll
think that this "beautifying" trip will
improve our family life.
But then, after looking in the mirror, I
see that my face in the morning before I
wake up is different from when I wash my face.
Then, when I come home tired from work,
it's different, and then in the evening it's different again. It's like
that, and if we look at ourselves too much,
we'll naturally get bored. And if
we only look in the mirror when
we're putting on makeup, we'll always be
miserable. If we only look in the
mirror when we start putting on
makeup or when a man starts washing his
face, then that's when
we admire ourselves the most,
so we get caught up in that beauty the
most. It doesn't harmonize with when
we're ugly and tired. It's just
a simple method like that. Then,
when I look in the mirror, I say, "Oh, this
is my face, this is my face, also tired and exhausted."
This is because of overthinking and
excessive lust, that's why
my face looks like this. Then, on the
8th of next month, Yen will ask everyone if
we've become less obsessed with beauty than when
we were constantly looking in the mirror and applying makeup. Let's see if
it's better. Do you
think it's better? It must be better
because we see ourselves when we're ugly
and we're more content with our ugliness.
When we wake up, we see ourselves like that,
but before applying makeup, isn't that a
feeling of contentment?
But when we're constantly looking in the mirror and
applying makeup,
our feeling of contentment is contentment with
beauty, not with
ugliness. So we have to create the conditions
for ourselves to be content with our
own ugliness so that we can let go of
our obsession with beauty. Then we can
also be content with the ugliness of
others, so we won't be
defeated by others. Because of the beauty of
filial piety, do you see the benefit? Especially for
young people,
you'll be less likely to be
deceived.  Being deceived happens because you see someone's
beauty and forget about
their character; you just get infected
without trying to understand them further. But
if you don't get infected by
someone's beauty right away, you still
have time to find out what their character is
like. If you've already been infected by their beauty, you
no longer have the opportunity to
find out their character; you're always trying to
get
their beauty to belong to you. You're
not alert. So
today, in this sutra, I encourage
everyone to find out how to avoid suffering when
you become less attractive. To avoid suffering when you become
less attractive, and to diligently
practice,
we must contemplate the decay of
our bodies. We will become
weary of it, and gradually, you
will reduce the intensity of
your efforts to adorn yourself. If you are practicing diligently
this year and look in the mirror 10 to 20
times to adorn yourself, you will gradually
see that it decreases.  If we can do that, then we know
we also have a little bit of progress,
you know
[music]
ho